Dangers, villains, problems must be present, dire and affecting characters we care about.

If it is difficult to get enough to eat, people should be dying of starvation.

If flight/airborne objects are to be feared, show me why they are scary.

If sentient rabbits or other types of cannibalism is a problem, it needs to be shown to affect a rabbit we know and love,

If the world outside the Enclosure is or was toxic, we need some evidence of that.

The "bad guys" should not be distant, moving at a glacial pace. They should be fairly static characters tho'.

Decide, define the "rotten core" of the current Heliopsis. Think more in terms of the bourgeois coup group in a formerly socislist country, or the fundamentalist reaction in a religious community.

The Lewshan "monsters" may be explained and become somewhat sympathetic -- sort of a critique of sectarian, narrowly-conceived ideas of change, of revolution, but they should still be present and deadly "shadows". They are the link to the dangers "outside".

The Jaxen likewise are contradictory and their overall relationship to organic life forms will experience a rupture.  But the dangerous rotten core here, the real fascists in this story, should be seen, felt to be murderous and dangerous.

The faceless bureaucrats of the Agency are a bit different. Their efforts at saving life forms is not "bad" in the same sense.  Their's is more of a cosmic problem. The galaxy is too big. There is not a clear practice of "Plenty" that can be followed. Each planet has distinct characteristics.  They cannot be everywhere or everyonce.  Mostly they watch, observe, try to develop laws, principles that can be tested, have truth in them, based on experience.  They are not good at mass line but are willing to practice it.  In the end they are not bad guys are they?  Need to show how they too are cganged.


All characters who are not static bad guys need to exhibit change, development, learning, or some kind of transformation.  Maybe put this in the character sketches: how does this character change?


